session-1

In pure node environment es6 module loader do not work hence import don't work and we need to use require.

To create a small server we use http module which provides a small module create server

in backend we call request handlers and request listeners.

types of functions
1. functions.
2.predicate functions (filter,find)
3. pure functions.
4.event handlers.
5 .selectors

index.js (file)

createServer - takes two parameter requestobject  and responseobject for the callback function.

within response object we have url property and we use end method of request.
end method return value to front end

server has method listen which listens to the data.
listen takes two arguments 1: port or url. 2: listening callback function.

Anychanges we make to source files we need to run server for implementing changes.


session - 2

using node js we can execute js code outside browser.
we have node modlues like (fs (file system),http (http module), os (operating system)).

using http module we can create webserver.
using webserver we can send data across the server.

for create server we have one parameter i.e, callback function which takes two parameters request and response.
we cannot send object directly to browser so we need to stringify the object and send.

inorder browser to listen server we use "server.listen" method.

what is the drawback of http module and what is the use of using express ?

ans : 1. we need to write multiple if else for each url.
    2. everytime we send the data we need to manually transform the data.

using the express js we can handle the incoming data .

express is build on top of node http module with some common functionalities and additional features.

express-server/index.js

setting up express
create package.json using npm  init -y
npm install express

package.json file consists of all the files details & we can write automation scripts using package.json.

express is just a package.
once we install express .express installs all the dependant modules.
node js uses the common js module loader.

express-server/index.js

we import express using require and invoke express using app.
we can assign port using process.env(port number).

on our front end whenever a event occurs we write event listeners same way on backend we write request listeners whent a request comes.

syntax for request listeners(express)

eg:
app.get('/',(request,response)=>{
    response.send("welcome to the website")
})

whenever the sever sends a empty object it means that particular record does not exist.

session -3

To handle post,delete & put requests

to read json data form the url we need enable express app to read data using middleware.
we need to do it in app level
app.use(express.json()) - it is the built in function

utility tool : nodemon

installation : sudo npm install -g nodemon
